this video was made possible by nordvpn
stay safe online by clicking the link
below
and get a huge discount off a two-year
plan with a risk-free 30-day money-back
guarantee
also why not grab yourself a character
pin of the little corporal himself
before they sell out and big shout out
to the patrons
head on over to learn about benefits
such as discord access and maybe even a
little behind the scenes content
okay mrs bonaparte this is it one last
push and we're done
congratulations it's a general oh
and here comes the rest of the army now
uh did you just say the rest of the art
[Music]
history is full of great conquerors many
with very impressive origin stories
for example alexander the great was the
son of a king
julius caesar came from an aristocratic
family that descended from a goddess
great conquerors don't usually come from
relatively insignificant families
living on impoverished islands but as it
just so happens
that is where our story begins
in the early 18th century the island of
corsica was a part of the republic of
genoa
until one day corsica said hey we're
declaring independence and it's probably
not worth your time to try and stop us
so genoa said
you're right it isn't worth their time
hey friends you want to buy this island
and france said sure thing and thus
corsica became france
just in time for napoleon to be born
french many corsicans didn't appreciate
their new conquerors however
and from an early age napoleon developed
some fairly anti-french sentiments
napoleon's dad however quickly embraced
his new french overlords which created
some tension between dad and son
look at me i'm dad i wear powdered wigs
and silver buckle shoes and i'm a
traitor to the corsican people go to
your room napoleon no
you go to your room dad
okay on the other hand napoleon adored
his mother who was definitely the
disciplinarian of the family and even
though she would punish napoleon
severely
he kind of respected that but napoleon's
parents wanted the best for their family
and since they were a very minor
nobility they were able to have napoleon
sent off to the shining lights and rat
infested sewage puddles of the big
city napoleon went to military school in
france
okay napoleon why don't you introduce
yourself to your new classmates
well i'm napoleon and i hate all of you
your farts smell like cheese you can't
pronounce the letter r
all you do is go on strike and you call
eggs oops like a bunch of big dumb idiot
dingleberries
okay thanks napoleon i hope you like
being bullied and bullied
he was they picked on him for his
corsican accent his family's lack of
wealth
and it probably didn't help that he also
had a bit of a chip on his shoulder but
he could hold his own and on an average
day
might be found dishing out ratatouille
sandwiches for breakfast he spent much
of his time alone
and he loved reading about the great
conquerors of history he learned about
julius caesar and he wondered if one day
he too might have a pizza franchise
named after him
[Music]
he excelled at math and geography and
when he graduated at the age of 16
he was made second lieutenant in an
artillery regiment now
second lieutenant might sound pretty
sweet to a screw-up like you
but napoleon had a little something
called ambition
stonks of it and he wasn't content being
just some junior officer
he wanted to rise the ranks
unfortunately for him
that would be a little difficult well
napoleon i've reviewed your application
it's clear you're very skilled and would
be a perfect fit for the promotion
and simeon you're just about the biggest
idiot i've ever seen your test results
suggest you have the mental aptitude of
a senile earthworm and in the part of
the form where you list your experience
you seem to have drawn a picture of a
gerbil giving birth to a shoe but
your dad is the marquis de la fu fayette
so
you get the job french society
was just too closed off positions were
handed out based on nobility
not talent and the young napoleon
probably felt stuck
wouldn't it be nice if say a revolution
came along
and changed all of that well what are
the chances
the french revolution is here best deal
toppling head shopping
king popping the revolution promised to
do away with the old social hierarchy
and make everyone a little more equal
napoleon may not have cared much for the
violent mobs but if it meant he could
rise the ranks
he was in he began fighting to defend
the revolution he put down a
british-sponsored counter-revolution in
toulon
and got promoted he put down a royalist
uprising in paris
and got promoted and as his military
prowess became more recognized he was
even given
his very own army it was astonishing
progress for such a young man of humble
origins
and napoleon's wildest dreams were
coming true
but napoleon also believed he could
increase his social status if he married
an older rich lady and so around this
time
napoleon went on the prowl however if
some sources are to be believed
he was a verified creep he reportedly
had terrible luck with woman
and most wanted nothing to do with him
fortunately he eventually met
josephine an aging single mother who was
deeply in debt
and needed stability so she agreed to
marry him despite finding him intensely
disgusting
napoleon you dirty dog you've done it
unbeknownst to napoleon however
josephine had a bit of a promiscuous
reputation hey napoleon i hear you're
marrying josephine
boy she sure is a great kisser that's
right hey wait what do you mean she's a
great kisser hey hugo you hear
napoleon's marrying josephine
wow she sure is a great kisser now hang
on just a minute hey everyone
napoleon's marrying josephine oh yeah
yeah sure is a great kid
i'm pretty sure i kissed you just
yesterday sake is there anyone here who
hasn't kissed my wife
yeah you
as napoleon fell madly in love with his
new wife she fell
madly in love with a man named hippolyte
it wouldn't be long however
before napoleon would leave home and go
to war because while france was having
its revolution
tensions in europe were rising hey
austria you'll never guess what we just
did
what's that friends i got two words for
you revo
lucian we totally just socked it to our
monarchy
what dude the rest of us are monarchies
you've just totally threatened the
balance of power in europe now we have
to worry about
our stinky peasants rising up against us
i mean holy hell
your queen is okay friends this is
pretty awkward
and the rest of europe is probably
itching to give you a wedgie but you're
not ready for a war yet
so you gotta be cool man it's absolutely
crucial
that you say something to defuse the
situation right now
preposterous i declare war
so france ended up at war with basically
the rest of europe and the war of the
first coalition began
at first france struggled but then they
started to do surprisingly well
and in many conquered territories they
began to establish sister republics
exporting their revolutionary ideas
across europe
in 1796 they planned a three-pronged
attack to take vienna and knock austria
out of the war with two magnificent
armies in the north to kick ass
and napoleon in the south has a bit of a
diversion for the first time
napoleon would lead a military campaign
this was his chance
to prove himself to be somebody and what
a general he proved to be
the army he was given were demoralized
lacking equipment and underpaid but
napoleon galvanized them with
inspirational speeches
and he took them into italy he was
outnumbered and his campaign was
partially meant to be a sideshow
but he made it the main show while the
two northern armies were being held back
napoleon made staggering progress in a
signature napoleon move
he masterfully split his enemies into
two and took them on
separately knocking sardinia out of the
war and putting the austrians
on the run at the famous battle of lodi
he was in the fray
aiming the cannons himself getting
covered in mud and earning the total
respect
of his men they respected him so much
that when he ordered an almost suicidal
assault on the only bridge in town his
men
threw themselves at it and took it
despite fierce austrian resistance
for napoleon it was all he needed to
confirm that he was the greatest human
who had ever existed wow napoleon you're
pretty great at this military stuff
just be careful your head doesn't get
too big what did you just say to me a
little prick and as napoleon swept
through northern italy the italians
cheered his arrival yes
i'm here to liberate you from your cruel
austrian oppressors
and replace them with french ones
napoleon plundered as he went
sending riches back to france to help
its economy but also paying his men the
first real money
they'd seen in years the pope had been
supporting the austrians so napoleon
briefly went to go give him a slap and
as he began to approach vienna
the exhausted austrians were forced to
make peace with napoleon overseeing
negotiations himself
he had just single-handedly knocked
austria out of the war
and by the way he was only 28 so maybe
it's about time you moved out of your
dad's attic
in the italian territories he had
conquered napoleon established new
french sister republics
even writing constitutions and
organizing governments himself
not something a general generally does
when he got back to france he was hailed
as a hero and the extremely unpopular
government were concerned he might get
some power-hungry ideas
so they agreed he should go far away
from france to egypt where he could
maybe undermine british access to india
napoleon was eager to win more glory so
he brought with him a team of scholars
and he was like whoa it's a freaky man
cat whoa it's a big stick
well it's an ugly horse whoa it's a
stumpy little manlet
hey i'm actually average height for the
time
but then british admiral nelson came
down and wrecked his fleet and an
anglo-ottoman force defeated him at acre
so napoleon abandoned his men and went
back to france
his campaign in egypt hadn't gone quite
as planned but one thing you should know
about napoleon was that he was a skilled
propagandist
he published his own newspapers that
sometimes exaggerated his achievements
and even commissioned paintings that
generally made him look cool so when he
returned to paris he was yet again
hailed as a hero and he began to get
some power hungry ideas
first however he had a bit of a problem
to deal with see he had learned
something shocking
about his dear wife really josephine
this guy i'm just as tall as him i'm
sorry
i swear now that you're becoming famous
i'll never do it again
make sure you don't i've never stooped
so louis to cheat on you
now if you'll excuse me i'll be in this
room consulting my generals for the next
minutes and by consulting i mean
boinking by my generals
i mean this woman and by 30 minutes
i mean two seconds having dealt with his
wife napoleon was then approached by a
very influential politician who said
he had an idea he wanted to stage a coup
against the deeply unpopular government
and needed the extremely popular
napoleon's help and napoleon thought
that was just the darn tootiness idea
the plan was to trap the government and
convince him to voluntarily give up
their power
and here's how they did it hey guys oh
my gosh
quick there's a dangerous jacobin plot
to overthrow you which we definitely
aren't just making up
better get inside this cage so we can
protect you
okay gentlemen
we got him in this case the cage
was an isolated palace outside of paris
with no one around but napoleon
and his army with the government inside
napoleon then entered and a pretty
chaotic event ensued during which the
government didn't seem entirely sure
what was going on
napoleon's men didn't seem entirely sure
what was going on and napoleon himself
didn't seem entirely sure what was going
on but thankfully napoleon's brother
lucian
president of the lower house managed to
regain control and the remaining
councilmen were intimidated
into creating a new constitution and
thus a new government was formed this
time
with three consuls in charge but after
napoleon did some rewriting
in the end there was really only one man
in charge the first
consul him and over the next few years
he worked to consolidate even more power
and essentially became a dictator
in total control of france by the way he
was only 30.
so maybe it's about time you washed your
disgusting bed sheets france was now
ruled by possibly the greatest military
leader
of the time possibly the greatest or
definitely
well now is his chance to prove it see
back when napoleon was still in egypt
being indiana jones
back home france was in france being
france they had conquered
even more territory and they were like
hey piedmont you get revolutionary
ideals
hey switzerland you get revolutionary
ideals and rome
you get revolutionary ideals everybody
gets revolutionary
oh hey guys nice sledgehammers and
naples very cool nail gun
you guys here to get some revolutionary
ideas
[Music]
as france was still spreading the
revolution and with napoleon busy in
egypt the european powers felt the time
was right for round two
and the war of the second coalition
began and this time
their big bad boy buddy russia was here
to bang some french boys back to
bordeaux
and bang him they did france got blasted
but then russia pulled out after
stalling in switzerland and now that
napoleon was in charge of the country he
was ready to start blasting right back
he took command of the army of the
reserve and he brought the fight to the
austrians
now there are many traits that made
napoleon a great military leader
i already mentioned one of them how he
was one of the boys and commanded the
total loyalty of his men
but now we see a second reason the
element of surprise
in 1800 napoleon moved to geneva and it
looked like he was probably going to
take on the austrian forces in germany
there's no way he'd be crazy enough to
move his entire army south to the alps
as a surprise attack on the austrians
besieging genoa
oh napoleon's moving his entire army
south through the alps as a surprise
attack on the austrians besieging genoa
napoleon's crossing of the alps is
legendary and you may have seen one of
the most famous paintings of the general
popping a sick wheelie on his majestic
stallion surrounded by dangerous
mountain terrain
of course in real life he made the
crossing on a depressed mule
but that's not as cool when he emerged
in italy the austrians expected him to
come break their siege
but napoleon went for their supply line
near milan forcing the austrians to meet
napoleon head-on at the famous battle of
moringa
the austrians initially clobbered the
outnumbered french and they were like
hooray we won but then a few hours later
napoleon showed up again with an even
bigger army and he clobbered them right
back
holy cow this tiny little fun-sized
french guy is running rings around us
all right i'm average height for the
time you jerk
then after general morrow's victory at
hohen linden vienna was exposed
and the austrians again sued for peace
just like the war of the first coalition
the second coalition ended in another
french victory but in many ways they
both felt more like
napoleon victories only the uk remained
at war with napoleon
and they were using their powerful navy
to blockade french ports and were even
seizing the cargos of neutral ships
obviously everyone else got pretty
pissed off that the british were
interfering with their trade so in
response
they formed a league and they embargoed
the uk right back
neutral countries protecting their own
interests that's offensive so britain
went to copenhagen and blew a bunch of
stuff
up and the league disbanded but because
the uk's economy was pretty bust
they decided to sign a treaty with
france in 1802 for the first time
in a long time europe was at peace
congratulations sire you've achieved
peace yes pierre but not for long
i still don't trust those dirty brits
did you hear they've been calling me the
bony men
what does that even mean keep an eye on
them would you i can't
sire why not because they use nordvpn
how would you like to spend 12 hours a
day on your favorite website ever
without the fear of your data being
stolen
then you need nordvpn nordvpn has
thousands of secure servers in 59
countries allowing you to safely surf
the net
at the fastest possible speed while
staying away from online threats
thanks to the anti-malware tool cybersec
nordvpn comes with a 30-day money-back
guarantee
and now you can take advantage of their
new password manager nord pass
and new encrypted cloud storage solution
nord locker nordvpn lets you search for
better deals in other territories and
unlock content
not available in your country like some
oversimplified videos for example
it's incredibly easy to use with just a
click of a button you can head up to
canada
and watch some sweet canadian tv just
like that
go to nordvpn.com oversimplified to get
a two-year plan plus one additional
month with a huge discount
that's nordvpn.com oversimplified and as
always
you'll be supporting my channel so thank
you
now where were we oh yeah crossing the
alps
defeating the austrians and europe at
peace what a meteoric rise it had been
for the young corsican
he had just taken charge of a nation
that appeared to be losing a war
and turned it all around securing french
gains in europe
but there was now a big question you see
throughout the chaotic french revolution
french governments had struggled to keep
the economy afloat they often didn't
have a whole lot of support and they
frequently came and went
would napoleon finally be the man who
could stick around
military victories were one thing but
could the general also govern
spoiler alert yes the economy is
crumbling well then why don't you have
yourself a new national bank currency
reform and improve taxation and welfare
systems
the legal system is an incoherent mess
well then why don't we nicely wrap all
those civil laws up into one new
centralized
legal code corrupt government officials
throw them in the trash
bad infrastructure throw it in the trash
woman's rights
throw him in the trash wait really well
yeah unfortunately
while napoleon was building on the
equality of the revolution he also
largely scaled back rights for certain
groups
and husbands had full legal control over
their wives
but come on ladies maybe let men have a
slice of the pie for once
okay napoleon further reformed education
ensuring a system based on individual
ability
meaning now simeon had to compete with
everyone else and napoleon could get the
cream of the crop to help him run the
republic
but he wasn't just building on the ideas
of the revolution the revolution had led
to a lot of chaos and napoleon
needed stability so he rolled back a
couple things most notably
with religion the revolution had pretty
much kicked the catholic church to the
curb but napoleon understood that since
many french citizens still considered
themselves catholic
that could be a problem so he came to an
agreement with the pope and brought back
the church
only this time with some pretty hefty
power limitations he also ensured
freedom for other religions
and is often noted for his positive
treatment of jewish people at a time of
widespread anti-semitism
but while all of this may make napoleon
sound like a pretty stand-up dude
it's good to note that he believed in
religious freedom because he thought it
was a powerful tool to keep the poor
from eating the rich
or something like that overall
napoleon's aim was to end the chaos of
the revolution
and finally create a stable and
prospering french republic
and in that aim he seemed to be largely
successful and generally popular with
the people of france
he officially declared that the
revolution is over adding
i am the revolution napoleon's head
could be seen for miles
of course not everyone was happy with
napoleon's reforms
conservatives felt he was too radical
radicals felt he was too conservative
but since napoleon was a dictator
opposition could usually be stamped out
with some good old-fashioned iron
fisting
in 1804 napoleon took one last major
step
after some failed attempts were made to
assassinate him he wanted to strengthen
his position
and ensure his dynasty could live on
after him and so he decided being first
council for life
simply wasn't quite enough he decided he
should become
emperor he held a vote asking the french
people if they were cool with the idea
and they returned a definitely not
rigged
99.9 in favor the balls
on this man and so on the 2nd of
december 1804
in an elaborate ceremony at notre dame
napoleon was made
emperor the pope was even invited to
attend and normally
he would crown an emperor but to make
sure everyone knew this wasn't some
charlemagne style circular power
division
napoleon lifted the crown and placed it
on his own head
like i said the balls on this man he was
now
emperor of the french well napoleon you
were a general
then he became first consul for life and
now you're an emperor
is it enough yet is your ambition
finally satisfied
i don't know pierre what comes after
emperor i would say
god sire you want to be a god
yes i'll put it down under maybe
okay everyone what the hell is going on
this core skin guy showed up out of
nowhere and he's kicking our ass
he's exporting the ideas of the french
revolution wherever he goes
and he just declared himself king of
italy and emperor he can't do that
i'm the emperor oh hey fellow monarchs i
see you're having a monarch party
my invite must have got lost in the mail
i'll just set up a spot
right here wow
you don't belong here napoleon we're
coming to take you down
i'd like to see you try i'm so scared i
just pooed my pants
hey everyone i just pooed my pants
no but i did just poo my pants before
napoleon had even declared himself
emperor the british had already
redeclared war on france because both
sides had been violating their previous
treaty
napoleon immediately occupied hanover
and then began making plans for a great
british invasion partially paid for by
selling a huge chunk of land to the
united states
napoleon gathered his army along the
english channel but here
was the problem while napoleon's
powerful army would almost certainly
obliterate the british on land there was
very little chance he'd actually make it
across the channel
because britannia ruled the waves this
power dynamic would keep the two
traditional enemies from engaging in
much real direct combat throughout the
napoleonic wars
however the british had something else
up their sleeve
copious amounts of money they were
willing to throw cash at anyone who
would go to war against napoleon and
there were plenty of takers
austria russia naples and sweden hoping
to put napoleon's france back in its
place
formed the third coalition against
france the coalition forces probably
thought that this time
they stood a chance they weren't
prepared for the total humiliation
they were about to suffer the war of the
third coalition was napoleon at his best
we've already learned two ways in which
napoleon was a great military commander
but here comes one of the biggest
reasons
speed he had reorganized his army into
cores which were themselves
basically small armies each had their
own infantry cavalry
and artillery and as a result was able
to act more independently
they spread out through the countryside
and by living off the land rather than
relying on heavy supply trains
they were able to move extremely quickly
napoleon would traverse massive
distances
outmaneuver his enemies isolate them and
then move in
for the kill before they even knew what
was going on
lightning warfare leading to total
destruction would you like to see him do
it
here we go part of the coalition's plan
was for the russians to meet up with the
austrians and take on napoleon together
combined they could turn the tide
against him so napoleon
needed to stop them from ever meeting
but he's all the way over in bologna
no problem in a matter of weeks napoleon
marched 200 000 men
in secret encircling austrian general
mack and capturing his entire army
a devastating blow napoleon later
remarked i have destroyed the austrian
army by simply marching
next he turned to face the approaching
russians okay it looks like the french
are coming for us but check this out
i've got an amazing idea when they
approach
we run away sir
you're a genius the russians began to
retreat with napoleon giving chase
and since his tactics relied on quick
victories this
could be a problem especially because
the longer the war went on the more
likely it looked other countries may
join the coalition
against him but napoleon knew the
russians are alexander the first
was young and seeking glory so he came
up with an idea to lure him in
he sent him a message what does it say
um
it says hello i'm just a widdle baby boy
and i'm very scared
are you talking like that or is he he is
sir
why is he doing that i don't know but
it's very cute helpless and vulnerable
hmm a little baby boy eh
very scared eh cute hey
boris get my crossbow we're going
hunting
the allied forces turned to face
napoleon who they now believed was in a
vulnerable position
he was set up at austerlitz and to make
it look like he was retreating
he had even evacuated the high ground a
thick fog set in obscuring napoleon's
center as the allies took the bait
and set up on the heights from there
they spotted napoleon's very weak
looking right flank
and they descended the heights to go get
it little did they know
it was exactly what napoleon was hoping
they'd do the next thing they knew a
large french force was emerging from the
fog
launching a huge central assault up the
hill they swung around
crushing the allies and as men attempted
to flee across the frozen lakes
napoleon ordered his artillery to fire
on the ice causing an unknown number
to drown but he told me he was just a
little baby boy
what happened he tricked you sir you
mean
i was the little baby boy all along
it was napoleon's masterpiece and
austria were once again forced to make
peace with france
then with the french conquest of naples
in 1806 the war of the third coalition
ended as yet another
napoleon victory this was the third time
napoleon had had to give austrian
emperor francis
a good spanking and so with the peace
treaty in 1805
napoleon was determined to punish him he
was forced to give up territory hand
over significant compensation
and promised never to fight napoleon
again for now
russia sweden and the uk remained at war
with france but none were able to offer
much of a threat
and so napoleon got to work
strengthening his grip over europe
he gave out rule of captured territories
to his family and friends
and most notably he established a new
confederation in germany with himself
as its protector seeing his influence in
germany being wiped away
emperor francis acknowledged reality and
officially dissolved the holy roman
empire
an entity that had existed for over a
thousand years
but it wasn't all good news for napoleon
for one thing spain had earlier allied
with france in 1804 because the british
just couldn't help themselves from
blowing up spanish ships
and napoleon hoped a combined french
spanish fleet would eventually be able
to invade england
unfortunately he received word that
british admiral nelson had engaged his
fleet at trafalgar
normally naval battles looked like this
but in this case nelson
did this was it because he was an idiot
no it's because he was a genius he
successfully punched through the franco
spanish line
and unleashed hell his victory ensured
british control of the sea
and his death during the battle made him
a legend
napoleon's hopes for a future british
invasion were gone
but not just that napoleon was also
hoping to secure peace on the continent
but that wasn't looking likely
because the prussian king was under
pressure from his wife
frederick he's established a
confederation in our turf
and he told us he'd give us hannover but
then offered it to the british
you have to declare war on him what is
it with you and war what is it with you
and being a cupcake go to war
okay in october 1806 prussia with its
famed military tradition
joined the coalition and declared war
beginning the war of the fourth
coalition
unfortunately prussian king frederick
william iii wasn't the smartest tool in
the shed
look at him over there being all french
makes me sick
boys we'll get him this time but here's
the thing
this time we have to stick together do
not under any circumstances face
napoleon by yourself
you all saw what happened to austria hey
where'd fred go
hey you jerk think you're some kind of
big shot huh wanna tangle with fred
you don't got the cajones we're screwed
without consulting its allies
prussia had gone ahead and sent napoleon
an ultimatum demanding he move all his
forces
out of germany now some of you watching
this video probably can't even wipe your
own bum bum yet but even you know you
don't just send napoleon an
ultimatum obviously napoleon went in for
the kill
prussia's army was quite outdated so
when they met napoleon at the twin
battles of yena
and oursted it wasn't even close even
marshall davu's heavily outnumbered
court aurstat
sent the prussians running and napoleon
carried out a ruthless pursuit of his
fleeing enemy
taking berlin and within a single month
decimating the prussian forces
frederick william and the remnants of
his army moved to the east
at this point napoleon's forces were
pretty tired winter had come
and conditions were miserable he
anticipated both sides would settle into
winter quarters
but russia decided to try their hand at
an unexpected winter attack
a series of brutal battles followed that
took a heavy toll
on both sides including the vicious
battle of ayla fought in blizzard
conditions
men froze to death and many deserted the
russian artillery
tore the french to shreds and napoleon
himself was momentarily under risk of
being captured
in the end the french army was saved
thanks to a legendary cavalry charge by
napoleon's flamboyant cavalry commander
miura after the horror inflicted on both
sides
they decided it might be a good idea not
to do any more fighting until after
winter
then after winter came and the fighting
continued the russians were pushed back
to friedland where russian general
bennigsen made a bit of a blunder by
positioning himself with the aloe river
to his back
the french artillery were able to pin
the russians between the river and their
concentrated gunfire
a major element in napoleon's fighting
style and many russians drowned
as they tried to escape war of the
fourth coalition
victory napoleon